so the first D lick is a standard scrubs
lick that sounds something like this
and all I'm doing is hitting the base
draw the top two strings flooding the
second string at the third fret hammer
on second to third fret of the second
string and a little forward backward
roll pull off on the third string to the
second from the third to the second fret
open first and there's your third string
open so it's okay that's one and another
one is that I like to use a lot ease and
I'm bouncing off the high D the low D
starting on the low to the high it's a
little syncopated thing I think I got
this from twenty Trischka I really can't
remember and the rest that lick is
similar to the first one
okay
and now a little bit of a melodic lick
might be and all I'm doing is walking
from the fifth string the fifth fret of
the second string open first
and occasionally hitting the right
string I'll go real slow see yeah if you
want to catch this that's a role that
there is to that um now another thing I
came up with is I figured out that if I
fronted the fourth and the second string
at the seventh fret and if I fretted the
third string at the fifth fret leaving
the first open this could be a sort of D
seventh chord and you can either you
know play across it or you can do a
little syncopated
okay another thing you can do is to do
that's using substitute chords I'm using
an a minor B minor C and D basically
against a D chord so I'm going now all
I'm really doing is I'm making an a
minor chord without leaving the first
string open I'm hitting the bass string
and then with my with my thumb with my
right hand and with the with my middle
and ring finger I'm hitting the second
and third strings and then bouncing off
the first and back again to the second
and open first actually I take that back
it's not the open first is the open
first and fretted second together
so it's something like that or you could
play you know you could play a role
against it and yeah there's another look
that I'm not sure who where I got this
from might been Pete Wernick it might
have been Tony Trischka but it sounds
like you've heard it in a lot of
different tunes but it's basically using
the inside role so you're fretting the
fourth string at the fourth fret and the
3rd string at the second fret and you're
doing your right hand is playing 4 3 2
and then 3 2 1
then you do 4 3 2 3 2 1 again open
second string fretted at the 2nd fret
3rd string and 3rd
and I mean you know there's mmm there's
probably limitless amount of D lips you
could play those are a couple of my
favorites there's also that's something
I learned from Tony Trischka which is a
it's a chromatic
and all you're doing is walking straight
up the strings starting on your open
floor okay and finally the last lick is
when I came up with years ago I wanted
something that sounded chromatic and
sounded to me anyway exciting and I came
and I realized this is a G and this is C
that's a D to C and that's G that's a G
I won't break it all down but it if
you've been playing banjo any like the
time you'll understand what what that's
all about but but the key thing here is
the right hand is really just doing a
forward backward roll and walking down
chromatically so it's like on the John
Hardy song where there's that D for a
longer than usual time it works good